Shared resources 1.2 (#85265)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/builds-running-entitled-builds-with-sharedsecret-objects.adoc

[NOTE]
====
If neither of the last two prerequisites in this list are met, establish, or ask your cluster administrator to establish, the necessary role-based access control (RBAC) so that you can discover `SharedSecret` instances and grant service accounts to use `SharedSecret` instances.
====

.Procedure

. Create a `SharedSecret` object instance with the cluster's entitlement secret by running the `oc apply` command:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must have cluster administrator permissions to create `SharedSecret` objects.
====
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f -<<EOF
apiVersion: sharedresource.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: SharedSecret
metadata:
  name: share-rhel-entitlement
spec:
  secretRef:
    name: etc-pki-entitlement
    namespace: openshift-config-managed
EOF
----

. Create a `ClusterRole` to grant permission to access the `SharedSecret` object and a `RoleBinding` object that grants permission to access the `SharedSecret` object by running the following command:

> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc new-project buildah-entitlement
> $ oc apply -f -<<EOF
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project buildah-entitlement
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f -<<EOF
---
```

apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: use-shared-secret
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - sharedresource.openshift.io
    resources:
      - sharedsecrets
    resourceNames:
      - share-entitlement-secret
    verbs:
      - use
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: use-shared-secret
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: use-shared-secret
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: pipeline
EOF
----

. Create a build with relevant mount details using `buildah` buildStrategy:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f -<<EOF
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: buildah-rhel-entitlement-build
spec:
  source:
    type: Git
    git:

>       url: <location of operator's organization>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      url: <LOCATION_OF_OPERATOR_ORGANIZATION>
```

      revision: quick-tests
    contextDir: rh-builds
  strategy:

>     name: buildah-csi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - name: buildah-csi
```

Reviewer: I think the symbol is missing, but please chek with engineers, thank you!

    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy
  paramValues:

>   - name: dockerfile <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - name: dockerfile # <1>
```

    value: Dockerfile
  volumes:
  - csi:
      driver: csi.sharedresource.openshift.io

>       readOnly: true <2>
>       volumeAttributes:
>         sharedSecret: share-entitlement-secret <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      readOnly: true # <2>
      volumeAttributes:
        sharedSecret: share-entitlement-secret # <3>
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f -<<EOF
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: buildah-rhel-entitlement-build
spec:
  source:
    type: Git
    git:
      url: <LOCATION_OF_OPERATOR_ORGANIZATION>
      revision: quick-tests
    contextDir: rh-builds
  strategy:
    name: buildah-csi
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy
  paramValues:
  - name: dockerfile <1>
    value: Dockerfile
  volumes:
  - csi:
      driver: csi.sharedresource.openshift.io
      readOnly: true <2>
      volumeAttributes:
        sharedSecret: share-entitlement-secret <3>
    name: rhel-entitlement
  output:
    image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/buildah-entitlement/sample-go-app
EOF
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The output image is saved to the internal registry. The location of the image will change based on the namespace the build runs in.
====

. Create the buildRun referencing the rhel-entitlement-build:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f -<<EOF
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: BuildRun
metadata:
  name: buildah-rhel-entitlement-buildrun
spec:
  build:
    name: buildah-rhel-entitlement-build
EOF
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> * You must include the command to remove the `/etc/rhsm-host` directory and all its contents in the Dockerfile before executing any `yum` or `dnf` commands.

Reviewer 2: Could we include an example Dockerfile that shows this? As a novice user, I find it difficult to follow what I should do by just reading the docs but this example shows me exactly wheat I need to do:
https://github.com/apoorvajagtap/shipwright-sample-go/blob/main/rh-builds/Dockerfile

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: use-share-etc-pki-entitlement
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - sharedresource.openshift.io
    resources:
      - sharedsecrets
    resourceNames:
      - etc-pki-entitlement
    verbs:
      - use
----

. Create a `Role` and `RoleBinding` object that grants the Shared Resources CSI driver the permission to access the `SharedSecret` object:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: share-etc-pki-entitlement
  namespace: openshift-config-managed
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - secrets
    resourceNames:
      - etc-pki-entitlement
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
----
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: share-etc-pki-entitlement
  namespace: openshift-config-managed
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: share-etc-pki-entitlement
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: csi-driver-shared-resource
    namespace: openshift-builds <1>
----
+

> <1> Enter the name of the namespace where openshift-builds is installed.

Reviewer 3: :+1:

> . Create a `RoleBinding` object for the ServiceAccount that consumes the `SharedSecret` in your current namespace:

Reviewer 3: The `builder` and `pipeline` service accounts are special - these are the service accounts used for BuildConfig builds and Builds for OpenShift builds. I think we should be a bit more specific here:

```suggestion
. Create a `RoleBinding` object for the `builder` and `pipeline` ServiceAccounts in the namespace where builds will run:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: use-share-etc-pki-entitlement
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: use-share-etc-pki-entitlement
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: pipeline
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: builder
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The ServiceAccount that consumes the `SharedSecret` are created and managed by the OpenShift controllers.
====

. Mount the `SharedSecret` with relevant mount details using the `buildah` buildStrategy:
+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc apply -f -<<EOF
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1beta1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: buildah-rhel
spec:
  source:
    type: Git

>     git:
>       url: <LOCATION_OF_OPERATOR_ORGANIZATION>
>       revision: entitled-builds
>     contextDir: rh-builds

Reviewer 3: This is the url where the build's source code resides. We should use our sample for buildah:

```suggestion
    git:
      url: https://github.com/redhat-openshift-builds/samples
    contextDir: buildah-build
```

  strategy:
    name: buildah
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy

>   paramValues:
>   - name: dockerfile
>     value: ContainerFile

Reviewer 3: Using sample above, this should be `Dockerfile` or omitted.

```suggestion
  paramValues:
  - name: dockerfile
    value: Dockerfile
```

  volumes:
  - csi:
      driver: csi.sharedresource.openshift.io
      readOnly: true #<1>
      volumeAttributes:
        sharedSecret: etc-pki-entitlement #<2>
    name: etc-pki-entitlement 
  output:

>     image: <PATH_OF_INTERNAL_REGISTRY>

Reviewer 3: End user/developer needs to provide this, doesn't have to be the internal registry. We have a footnote on this elsewhere in our docs: https://85265--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-builds/latest/work_with_builds/using-builds#ob-creating-a-buildah-build_using-builds

```suggestion
    image: <output-image-reference>
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="builds-running-entitled-builds-with-sharedsecret-objects_{context}"]
= Running builds using SharedSecret objects

You can use a `SharedSecret` object to securely access the entitlement keys of a cluster in builds.

The `SharedSecret` object allows you to share and synchronize secrets across namespaces.

[IMPORTANT]
====
* The Shared Resource CSI Driver feature is now generally available in link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/builds_for_red_hat_openshift/1.1 {product-title} Builds 1.1. To use this feature, ensure you are using {product-title} Builds 1.1 or a more recent version.

> ====

Reviewer 3: Should this be removed for builds-1.2 docs?
